# Project Experience

I graduated with a bachelor's degree in science at UBC, with a combined major in Statistics and Economics. Both majors strongly emphasize using data to find factors or relationships affecting real issues, which has broadened my view on how data reveals potential insights about the inconspicuous factors of the world. 

Specifically, several projects from statistics courses required looking for factors affecting the amount spent on wine and wine quality by using linear regression, with shrinkage methods like Ridge regression and Lasso to analyze model. Furthermore, in Econ 490, a detailed data analysis was applied to discover the impact of trade activeness on long-term economic growth. In this analysis, specific issues with the regression model were addressed, which aware me that the model must be tested on a regular basis and adjusted based on the distribution of variables. For example, to address the issue of GDP per capita being skewed and growing exponentially, a natural logarithm transformation was used to normalize the variable and easier linearize the relationship with the growth rate. Furthermore, because the natural log of a negative number is unknown, the absolute value is used to calculate the natural log and is modified to be negative if the original data is negative. The square term of Intot was added to correct a non-linearity for variable Intot, and the code in Stata to corresponding corrections was applied to address Heteroskedasticity and serial correlation.

After graduating from UBC and entering the workforce, I discovered that I still needed to improve my big data skills. That is why I signed up for IBM data science courses on Coursera. I came to the realization that the quality of any data analysis performed relies on my capacity to develop the proper questions while rephrasing one problem in the form of questions to be addressed with data. By using the real-world dataset of the Chicago Data Portal, I was able to create a view that restricts some data that users can access, a stored procedure that users can use to update data in the table, and a transaction that encloses the update code to ensure that the data is still in a consistent state if an error occurs. This project has improved my SQL techniques by creating sophisticated SQL statements to query data from many tables, hiding sensitive information from users, and regulating how information is updated. 

In the future, I would like to become a data scientist aimed to work in the burgeoning subject of smart city management. In recent years, big data has played a significant role in urban management, building urban information models and maximizing big data functions, based on my knowledge of smart city management, can correctly provide smart solutions in city constructions, such as repairing pipelines and renovating circuits, which brings multiple benefits and is quite promising in the future.
